Instructional Strategies - Academic Affairs - YCCC at York County Community College
Skip to Main Content
York County Community College
YCCC
Academic Affairs
Academic Affairs
Instructional Strategies
Search this Group
Search
Academic Affairs: Instructional Strategies
Home
Center for Teaching Excellence
Toggle Dropdown
Instructional Strategies
YC Course Materials
Syllabus Creation
Rubrics
Brightspace Support
Online Teaching
Toggle Dropdown
FacultyToolBox
Brightspace QuickStart Videos
Student Success Commons
Overview
Use this page to learn and develop as an instructor. You can find workshop recordings and recommendations, rubric and assessment guidance, best practices for online teaching, and a toolbox of helpful eLearning tools and resources to help you develop and refine your courses.
Past Workshops
Snazzy New Brightspace Tools
Review this slidedeck to get a brief introduction to Creator+, CopyLeaks, and the Instructor Profile Widget, all new for Fall '24. This workshop was originally presented at the Faculty PD Training in August '24.
Rubrics
This link opens in a new window
Your assessment is only as great as it’s evaluation method; learn to create and use rubrics to objectively evaluate student learning.
Edpuzzle
This link opens in a new window
Learn how to add more engagement and collect helpful learning data by leveraging Edpuzzle, an eLearning video tool connected to Brightspace.
Engaging Students Online
This link opens in a new window
Apply strategies to your instruction that increase student engagement online, no bells and whistles needed!
Retrieval Practice and Spaced Learning
This link opens in a new window
Learn how leveraging basic neuroscience principles can strengthen student knowledge and skill retention to make learning last a lifetime.
Universal Design for Learning
This link opens in a new window
While you can’t make each student their own individualized course, you can apply Universal Design for Learning (UDL) to make them feel like you did, vastly improving student learning outcomes and engagement. Learn more about UDL from this workshop deck.
Exploring Best Practices
Incorporating best practices and research-based strategies into your instructional practices is what helps students learn and develop the intended knowledge and skills. Find actionable tips and techniques to incorporate best practices into your courses below.
Optimizing  High-Quality  Digital Learning  Experiences: A Playbook  for Faculty
Explore this playbook from the Online Learning Consortium (OLC) designed for online instructors which covers equitable course design, digital learning tools, OERs, assessment, and so much more!
5 Ways to Incorporate UDL into Your Online Course
The easy to implement strategies covered in this article can benefit online, in-person, and hy-flex courses.
Using Backwards Design to Plan Your Course
Courses should all be designed so that students can successfully meet the defined outcomes. But how can instructors ensure this happens? Read this article to apply Backwards Design principles to your course design.
Federal Plain Language Guidelines
Help learners better understand what is being expressed in lectures, directions, announcements, and other communications using Plain Language practices.
Accessibility Toolkit
Accessibility helps ensure everyone has what they need to succeed. Use this toolkit to ensure popular means of communication in coursework meet technical accessibility guidelines.
Assessment and Rubrics
Evaluation and Assessment: Measure What Matters Webinar Recording
This link opens in a new window
You worked hard to create your course, but how do you know it was effective? In this session from Learning Guild you'll learn the difference between assessment and evaluation, and techniques to measure what matters in learner abilities and course effectiveness.
Rubric Example: Formative Assignment (non-PLO)
This link opens in a new window
Review this generic discussion board rubric alongside reasons it’s a great example.
Rubric Example: Discussion Boards
This link opens in a new window
Review this generic discussion board rubric alongside reasons it’s a great example.
Faculty Toolbox
Qwickly Attendance
This link opens in a new window
Select Qwickly Attendance and D2L Brightspace to view helpful training videos on how to use the Qwuickly Attendance tool to track student attendance.
LockDown Browser - Resources - Respondus
This link opens in a new window
Explore product documentation to learn about Respondus Lockdown Browser, a tool that can be connected to your Brightspace Quizzes to virtually proctor student assessment.
Panopto
This link opens in a new window
Access training videos on how to use Panopto, a tool that allows for screen recording, video storage, minor editing, and quizzing of instructor-created content.
ReadSpeaker webReader - Online Web Reading
This link opens in a new window
Learn about ReadSpeaker web reader and how it supports accessibility best practices, as well as how to check your course content for screen readability.
YCCC Accessibility Services: Academic Tools and Resources
This link opens in a new window
Explore tools recommended by YC Accessibility Services to support all students in learning.
WAVE Accessibility Extension
This link opens in a new window
Add the free WAVE (Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool) extension to your browser to quickly evaluate a resource’s accessibility.
*No information is stored, ensuring  privacy and security.
Labster
This link opens in a new window
Access Labster’s, a virtual lab tool,  training materials including guides and webinars alongside industry research and case studies.
LMS Closed-Response Quiz Question Generator
This link opens in a new window
Have a long exam to create in Brightspace quizzes? Use this tool to expedite the quiz-creation process.
Office 365
This link opens in a new window
Access Office365, free to students and instructors at YC.
*Please note that YC supports Office365; while you can use the Google suite, it is not the preferred/supported cloud service for the college.
Adobe Creative Cloud
This link opens in a new window
Access Adobe Creative Cloud, which has a suite of tools available for students and instructors.
YC Bookstore
This link opens in a new window
Access the YC bookstore to review course materials.
<<
Previous:
Center for Teaching Excellence
Next:
YC Course Materials >>
Last Updated:
Oct 2, 2026 1:56 PM
URL:
https://virtual.yccc.edu/academicAffairs
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Subjects:
Educational theory
Finding articles
The Student Success Commons
Tutoring
Tags:
assessment
Brightspace
course design
cultural_events
faculty
instruction
staff
teaching
yccc