YC Course Materials - Academic Affairs - YCCC at York County Community College
Skip to Main Content
York County Community College
YCCC
Academic Affairs
Academic Affairs
YC Course Materials
Search this Group
Search
Academic Affairs: YC Course Materials
Home
Center for Teaching Excellence
Toggle Dropdown
Instructional Strategies
YC Course Materials
Syllabus Creation
Rubrics
Brightspace Support
Online Teaching
Toggle Dropdown
FacultyToolBox
Brightspace QuickStart Videos
Student Success Commons
Overview
Please note that if you are not able to access a resource/see a video, you may need to log in to your 'other' email (ie yccc.edu vs mainecc.edu). We appreciate your patience as we experience The Great Email Migration!
Use this page to prepare your course for a new term and self-assess your application of YC’s Teaching and Learning Standards and instructional effectiveness.
How to Use the Master Course Template
Watch this video to learn how to find and copy in the new Master Course Template, which provides instructors with a consistent yet customizable course structure.
How to Use the Master Course Template with an Existing Course
Watch this video to learn how you can use the Master Course template in a course that's already been built and used in the past.
New Course Design Materials
16 Week Course Planner
This link opens in a new window
Don’t have a master course and need to plan out your term? Once you’ve identified your primary learning resource(s) use this template to plan out your course!
7 Week Course Planner
This link opens in a new window
Don’t have a master course and need to plan out your term? Once you’ve identified your primary learning resource(s) use this template to plan out your course!
Policy on Credits and Degrees
This link opens in a new window
Review the New England Commission of Higher Education’s (NECHE) guidance on “Definition and Commission Review of the Credit Hour” to help adequately plan your course.
Time on Task: Estimation Details
This link opens in a new window
You know it’s important to be considerate of the Time on Task(ToT) for each week of your course, but how does one actually calculate it? This overview from Wake Forest University provides helpful guidance on ToT estimations for college-level coursework.
Cengage
This link opens in a new window
Review Cengage products for use in courses.
OER Commons
This link opens in a new window
Explore Open Education Resources available for use in courses to reduce cost for students.
MERLOT
This link opens in a new window
Explore Open Education Resources available for use in courses to reduce cost for students.
About CC Licenses - Creative Commons
This link opens in a new window
Learn about Creative Commons Licenses, an important consideration for using and creating Open Education Resources.
Syllabi
YCCC Syllabus Template V6
Use this syllabus template for the 25-26 school year to ensure you have the correct college policies/contacts as well as the required course information provided to your students. This syllabus is ADA compliant.
Selecting and Incorporating Learning Resources
Free Resources
Paid Resources
Selecting Quality Resources
Incorporate Paid Resources
YC Library
Your first stop to find course resources should be the YC Library. Browse videos, articles, audio books, textbooks and more to provide students with free, quality learning resources.
OER Resource List
If the Library doesn't have what you need, check out Open Education Resources (OERs) to provide students with free materials. Note that depending on the Creative Commons license type you are often able to customize and adapt resources to suit your personal style and course.
TED
Select engaging talks from leaders, innovators, creatives, and experts from around the globe.
Pro-Con.org
Looking to incorporate discussion, diverse perspectives, or kickstart a persuasive assignment? Find articles that support both sides of popular issues here.
Please note that while paid resources are often easier on the instructor, they can create additional barriers for students due to their cost-prohibitive nature. When used, they should be used regularly throughout the course, be current and valid, and be easy for students to access and comprehend. They should be selected when free resources are insufficient, not a first-choice for a course resource strategy.
Cengage
Explore Cengage tutorials, review books, and access instructor support resources here.
VitalSource
Review textbooks and courseware from across major and minor publishers through VitalSource.
Pearson
Explore Pearson products from e-textbooks and Mastering to MyLab and Connect, as well as access helpful guides and troubleshooting materials.
Labster
Explore Labster offerings and tutorials and access the Help Center.
Selecting Textbooks and Course Materials
Read this article from the journal College Teaching to learn about five key considerations for selecting textbooks and course materials.
Incorporating Pearson Products in Brightspace
Using Pearson digitial products in your Brightspace course, such as MyLab or Mastering? Use this guide to help you add your learning content.
Incorporating Cengage MindTap Resources into Brightspace
Follow the provided tutorials from Cengage to add MindTap links into your Brightspace course.
Incorporating Labster Into Your Brightspace Course
Follow the provided tutorial to insert Labster simulations into your Brightspace course.
Course Setup
Copying Your Course Content Video
This link opens in a new window
Follow this short tutorial to copy course components. Please note that you are encouraged to "Select Components" and only copy over the materials and data you want to use in your new course to avoid common issues with course setup in Brightspace.
Copying Your Course Content PDF
This link opens in a new window
Copying a Course with Cengage Materials
Learn how to correctly copy a course that uses Cengage materials to prepare for a new term.
Instructor Resources for Self-Assessment
Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation (Digital Form)
Review the York County Community College Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation document to get a sense of what you will be evaluated on during a course observation
MCCS Teaching and Learning Standards
Review the guiding standards for designing and instructing courses within the Maine Community College System alongside helpful resources for YC instructors.
Faculty/Instructor ADA Checklist
Use this checklist to ensure that your course materials are ADA compliant. ADA compliance is required by law.
<<
Previous:
Instructional Strategies
Next:
Syllabus Creation >>
Last Updated:
Oct 2, 2026 1:56 PM
URL:
https://virtual.yccc.edu/academicAffairs
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Subjects:
Educational theory
Finding articles
The Student Success Commons
Tutoring
Tags:
assessment
Brightspace
course design
cultural_events
faculty
instruction
staff
teaching
yccc