Brightspace Support - Academic Affairs - YCCC at York County Community College
Skip to Main Content
York County Community College
YCCC
Academic Affairs
Academic Affairs
Brightspace Support
Search this Group
Search
Academic Affairs: Brightspace Support
Home
Center for Teaching Excellence
Toggle Dropdown
Instructional Strategies
YC Course Materials
Syllabus Creation
Rubrics
Brightspace Support
Online Teaching
Toggle Dropdown
FacultyToolBox
Brightspace QuickStart Videos
Student Success Commons
Brightspace Support
Brightspace is YC’s Learning Management System (LMS). All courses, whether online, on campus, or anything in-between, are required to have the course syllabus posted and gradebook regularly updated in Brightspace, with more required for online and hybrid courses and more usage strongly recommended for on-campus courses. Brightspace helps students and instructors access and navigate their courses through quick access to elearning materials, online file submissions and grading, virtual discussion forums, and all kinds of other tools and features.
The Center for Teaching Excellence can help you leverage Brightspace to its full potential for your courses, but for general Brightspace guidance and technical issues explore resources or use the chat feature of
Brightspace Community
.
Brightspace Training Resources
Beginner
Proficient
Advanced
New to Brightspace or York County Community College? Start here to get acquainted with our Learning Management System (LMS) and basic requirements for setting up your course.
Brightspace Training for Instructors
Take this open training course from D2L to learn the basics of Brightspace.
Brightspace Content Area Recorded Training
Watch this recorded webinar on creating, organizing, and managing the Content area of Brightspace
Getting Started in Brightspace: Community Tutorials
Use this Brightspace Community wiki to find tutorials on all the basics for instructors.
Brightspace Grades Recorded Training
Watch this recorded webinar on managing grades and the gradebook in Brightspace
Brightspace Open Q&A Forum
Join this regularly occurring open Q&A to ask your Brightspace questions to the experts at D2L
Create and Manage Grades
Watch this short video to learn how to create and manage grade items in your Brightspace gradebook.
How to Grade an Assignment in Brightspace
Watch this short video to learn how to grade assignments in Brightspace.
Create a Quiz
Watch this short video to learn how to create a basic quiz in Brightspace.
Create an Assignment
Watch this short video to create an assignment, or file submission-based activity, in Brightspace.
Create a Rubric to Assess Student Learning
Follow this tutorial to create a basic rubric in Brightspace to easily assess student learning.
Been using Brightspace at YCCC for a few terms? Looking to make your online course experiences more engaging and effective for both you and your students? Check out these resources and tutorials to upskill.
Single Profile Widget
Personalize your course home page by updating the Single Profile Widget, giving your course a personal touch and providing students with easy to find contact information.
Using the Brightspace HTML Editor
Learn how to edit and customize content in Brightspace using the HTML Editor, which can help you embed links and files, insert tables and code snippets, customize your written content, and so much more.
Create Class Awards
Learn about Brightspace Awards and how you can recognize student achievements by creating badges and certificates based on criteria you determine.
Been using Brightspace at YCCC for a while and looking to step up your online course experience? Explore these resources and tutorials to use Brightspace to it's full potential.
Creator+ Overview Video
Learn about Creator+ features and the benefits it can provide to your online course content.
Creator+ Training
Learn how to enhance the student learning experience using Brightspace Creator+ features that increase navigability and engagement.
Automate with Intelligent Agents
Automate basic communications and tasks in your course by setting up Intelligent Agents, which can increase student success and reduce the time you spend on administrative course tasks.
Updates, Outages, and Remedies
Technology is constantly changing, and sometimes that means you may experience some technical difficulties in your courses. Here you'll find a list of current known updates and outages alongside action needed or suggested remedies.
UPDATES:
LTI 1.1 links will no longer be available in Brightspace, impacting the use of external learning tools such as McGraw Hill Connect, Cengage Mindtap, Labster, and similar third-party tools as of Friday, May 10th, 2024. Instructors should instead be using LTI 1.3 links, which can be inserted using "Existing Activities" in a Brightspace module. Resources and tutorials will be available soon.
Summer instructors who are seeing "Broken Topic" items in their courses can reach out to
yccc
CTESupport@mainecc.edu
for assistance.
Brightspace Updates and Releases
The following videos provide quick overviews of Brightspace updates. Note that some updates are not relevant to YC and videos are snipped as possible to skip the non-YC material.
Creator+ Update
Watch this short video from the cinematic artists at Southern Maine Community College to get a brief overview of Creator+, a new set of features available in Brightspace to increase navigability and engagement.
<<
Previous:
Rubrics
Next:
Online Teaching >>
Last Updated:
Oct 2, 2026 1:56 PM
URL:
https://virtual.yccc.edu/academicAffairs
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Subjects:
Educational theory
Finding articles
The Student Success Commons
Tutoring
Tags:
assessment
Brightspace
course design
cultural_events
faculty
instruction
staff
teaching
yccc