Home - Academic Affairs - YCCC at York County Community College
Skip to Main Content
York County Community College
YCCC
Academic Affairs
Academic Affairs
Home
Search this Group
Search
Academic Affairs: Home
Home
Center for Teaching Excellence
Toggle Dropdown
Instructional Strategies
YC Course Materials
Syllabus Creation
Rubrics
Brightspace Support
Online Teaching
Toggle Dropdown
FacultyToolBox
Brightspace QuickStart Videos
Student Success Commons
Thank you for visiting the Academic Affairs virtual page. We hope you find the resources helpful as you build your classes and teach at YCCC this semester.
Please reach out for assistance at any time.
Dr. Anne Crampton
Dean of Education |
Academic Affairs
acrampton
@mainecc.edu
207.216.4476
College and System Policies
MCCS Policies
This link opens in a new window
Review a complete list of MCCS Policies here
MCCS: Definition of Program of Study and Units of Credit
This link opens in a new window
MCCS: Criteria for Academic Credentials
This link opens in a new window
MCCS: Learning Management System
This link opens in a new window
MCCS: Program Advisory Committees
This link opens in a new window
MCCS: Student Grade Appeals and Academic Misconduct
This link opens in a new window
YCCC Governance Charter (2020)
This link opens in a new window
YCCC Governance: How It Works Slide Deck
This link opens in a new window
Instructional Information
Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation (Digital Form)
This link opens in a new window
Review the York County Community College Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation document to get a sense of what you will be evaluated on during a course observation
more...
less...
Note: You will need to save a copy of the Digital Form and use it through your desktop app, not the web-based version of Word, to complete it
Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation (Print-Friendly Form)
This link opens in a new window
Review the York County Community College Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation document to get a sense of what you will be evaluated on during a course observation
MCCS Updated Teaching and Learning Standards
This document is the updated Teaching and Learning Standards created by MCCS.
Faculty/Instructor ADA Checklist
This checklist can help you to ensure your course materials are ADA compliant, which is required by law.
Academic Information & Resources
Academic Internships
This link opens in a new window
Access governed course outlines which include the course description, topical outline, and course outcomes that are required to be in your syllabus and used to guide your course
Articulation Agreements
This link opens in a new window
Review articulation agreements between YCCC and other local higher education institutions by program
Gender Equity
This link opens in a new window
Explore how YCCC is helping support students enrolled in non-traditional fields for their gender and access helpful resources to support these efforts in your own instruction
Prior Learning Assessment
This link opens in a new window
Review credit options and resources for evaluating  prior learning assessment (PLA)
2025-2026 Adjunct Faculty Handbook
All adjuncts are required to read this handbook every each year. Updated handbooks come out in August.
Academic Dishonesty Form
Allows faculty member to report an incident of academic dishonesty.
more...
less...
The report is sent to the Dean of Students and Dean of Education. It does not become part of the student's record, but it does create a report and provides a chance to request further action or support.
Next:
Center for Teaching Excellence >>
Last Updated:
Oct 2, 2026 1:56 PM
URL:
https://virtual.yccc.edu/academicAffairs
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Subjects:
Educational theory
Finding articles
The Student Success Commons
Tutoring
Tags:
assessment
Brightspace
course design
cultural_events
faculty
instruction
staff
teaching
yccc