FacultyToolBox - Academic Affairs - YCCC at York County Community College
Skip to Main Content
York County Community College
YCCC
Academic Affairs
Academic Affairs
FacultyToolBox
Search this Group
Search
Academic Affairs: FacultyToolBox
Home
Center for Teaching Excellence
Toggle Dropdown
Instructional Strategies
YC Course Materials
Syllabus Creation
Rubrics
Brightspace Support
Online Teaching
Toggle Dropdown
FacultyToolBox
Brightspace QuickStart Videos
Student Success Commons
BRIGHTSPACE
All online courses are in Brightspace. Brightspace is the Learning Management System for
YCCC
.
Brightspace Login
Brightspace Quick Start Guide for Faculty
Brightspace Tool Overview
New Assignment Experience
Brightspace Mobile App
The Brightspace Pulse app is designed especially for students to view content and participate in courses. The app is available on iOS, Android, and Windows mobile devices
Pulse App for iOS Devices (iPhone/iPad)
P
ulse App for Android
Devices
Accessibility Tools
YCCC Academic Tools Resources
URKUND Plagiarism Software
How To Use
Analysis
How to turn on URKUND
Instructor Guide
For URKUND technical support, contact:
http://www.urkund.com/en/contact
.
Helpful Links
Ask an Expert
Academic Calendar
YCCC Bookstore
Brightspace "Tip of the Week" Archive
Preview Learner Grades
Set a Due Date for a Discussion
Allow Students to View Their Quiz Results
Releasing Up-to-Date Grades for Students
Realeasing Grades Manually
Using Quick Eval
Managing Notifications
See if a student dropped/withdrew from your course
Using Video Note for Grading & Feedback
Customize the "Meet Your Instructor" Widget
Allow Students to Retake Incorrect Quiz Questions
Quickly Attendance
ATTENDANCE
How To Videos
Additional Quickly Webinars
ThinkCell VideoTutorial
Zoom Meetings, Recording Procedures & Backgrounds
FERPA & Class Recordings
Accessing Zoom from within Brightspace
Guide to Educating through Zoom
MCCS Zoom Recording Procedure
YCCC Logo & Tag Line Background
YCCC Background Photo for Zoom
YCCC Background photo P&W building
YCCC Background photo Wells Main Building
Zoom Plugin for Outlook on a PC
Zoom Plugin for Outlook on a Mac
Search for Multimedia Content
Streaming Video
DVDs
Audiobooks
Streaming video that's more resourceful than YouTube! Documentary, archival, and instructional videos can be found here for a variety subject areas. Get started by accessing the FoD homepage
here
, or use the widget below to get started.
The
YC
CC
Library
is designed to show you how to access and use key Library resources. You can complete the full sequence for introduction to all our resources, or pick and choose sections to get a refresher on the resources best suited to your needs.
Looking for films from the Library's DVD collection?
Try the
Minerva catalog
.
Enter a keyword or subject and see what resources are available locally or from other libraries in the state!
Provided by the State of Maine, the Cloud Library offers eBooks & AudioBooks for download.
Start
browsing online
or
download the app
for a variety of platforms. Now you're free to read or listen on the go!
Test Question Generator
Additional Resources
Resource Guide
Respondus
About Respondus
Instructor Quick Start Guide
Student Quick Start Guide
Introduction to Lockdown
Preparing a Quiz for Use with LockDown Browser
Instructor Mylabs Respondus setup
Student Demo of MyLabs Respondus
Respondus Knowledge Base
Panopto
Click the Panopto Logo above for a complete list of videos.
MCCS Panopto Faculty Training
MCCS Advanced Panopto Editing Webinar
Create a Quiz in Panopto
How to Use a Panopto Quiz as a Graded Activity
Embedding Panopto Recordings in Brightspace
ReadSpeaker
A webreader that automatically speech enables course content within Brightspace.
Intro to ReadSpeaker
How to Access ReadSpeaker
Player & Tool Highlights
Add the TextAid Bookmarklet to Browser
Labster
T
he only step instructors need to do is upload their own common cartridge's; The instructions for the integration process is below.
Step 1:
How to
download
Common Cartridges from our Faculty Resource page
Faculty Resources Page Direct Link
Step 2:
How to
import
Labster Common Cartridges into D2L/Brightspace
Brightspace Virtual Classroom
Virtual Classroom Information
Using Virtual Classroom
Create a Video Assignment in Virtual Classroom
Free Software
YCCC offers the Microsoft Office Suite to all students and faculty. The Office Suite includes: Word, Powerpoint, Excel, and OneNote. Access these resources with your YCCC ID and password.
Install Office 365
The best web browser to use with Brightspace is Chrome. Chrome is a free and open-source web browser developed by Google. Chrome is available for Windows, macOS and Linux operating systems.
D
ownload Chrome.
Some courses use PDF files. Your computer will need to be able to open PDF files. If you find your computer cannot open a PDF file, you will want to download and install the free Adobe PDF reader.
D
ownload Adobe PDF Reader
Google Drive
is a free cloud-based storage service that enables users to store and access files online. The service syncs stored documents, photos and more across all of the user's devices, including mobile devices, tablets and PCs.
It also allows you to share files with your classmates and instructors.
To use Google Drive, you must set-up a gmail account.
Set-up a gmail account
Adobe Creative Cloud is a set of applications and services from Adobe Systems that gives subscribers access to a collection of software used for graphic design, video editing, web development, photography, along with a set of mobile applications and also some optional cloud services.  Sign in with your normal YCCC email address and password and then you can go to Desktop Downloads and choose any piece of software to download.
Adobe Creative Cloud
<<
Previous:
Online Teaching
Next:
Brightspace QuickStart Videos >>
Last Updated:
Oct 2, 2026 1:56 PM
URL:
https://virtual.yccc.edu/academicAffairs
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Subjects:
Educational theory
Finding articles
The Student Success Commons
Tutoring
Tags:
assessment
Brightspace
course design
cultural_events
faculty
instruction
staff
teaching
yccc