Center for Teaching Excellence - Academic Affairs - YCCC at York County Community College
Skip to Main Content
York County Community College
YCCC
Academic Affairs
Academic Affairs
Center for Teaching Excellence
Search this Group
Search
Academic Affairs: Center for Teaching Excellence
Home
Center for Teaching Excellence
Toggle Dropdown
Instructional Strategies
YC Course Materials
Syllabus Creation
Rubrics
Brightspace Support
Online Teaching
Toggle Dropdown
FacultyToolBox
Brightspace QuickStart Videos
Student Success Commons
Thank you for visiting the Center for Teaching Excellence virtual page, where you can find helpful resources related to Brightspace, instructional best practices, assessment design, grading guidance, instructor professional development opportunities, and more.
Have a question, need help, or have feedback for CTE? Reach out to us at
ycccCTEsupport@mainecc.edu
or come visit us in Room
203.
JJ Dufort
Director of Teaching and Learning
jdufort
@mainecc.edu
207.216.4383
Meet the CTE Team
JJ Dufort, Ed.D
Director
of Teaching and Learning
JJ has been an educator for 24 years. She has served in the K-12 space in Maine as a teacher and as a curriculum leader, and has been a member of the YC community as an instructor for over 18 years. She earned her Ed.D in Curriculum and Instruction from the University of South Carolina and is excited to leverage her experience and education to support the YC community. As the Director of Learning, she is your go-to contact for assessment expertise, instructional strategies, and curriculum initiatives. She is well-versed in online, in-person, and hybrid instructional strategies. In her free time, JJ enjoys road tripping, reading, and hiking.
Chris Watkinson
Workforce Instructional Designer
Chris is an instructional designer, educator, and creator. He has spent his career in Maine working in higher education and in workforce development. He received his degree in History from USM and a certificate in Online Learning and Instruction from Duke University. Chris is experienced in traditional classroom instruction, multimodal educational technology, and applying learning strategies to create meaningful learning experiences for students of all ages and backgrounds. As the Workforce Instructional Designer at YCCC Chris is responsible for helping develop program goals, designing the student learning experience, and is the Brightspace LMS administrator for Workforce development, trainings, and apprenticeship programs. When he's not in the office, Chris loves hiking, camping, and kayaking with his family.
M. Wendy West
Librarian
Wendy has taken a circuitous route to arrive here at the YCCC Library and Student Success Commons. She has a background in alternative education, wooden boat building, the National Park Service, and working in Maine's public libraries. With a passion for connecting people to the resources they seek and empowering them to develop and expand their own information-locating skills, Wendy believes that intellectual freedom is fundamental to a democratic society and that libraries truly make the world a better place. As a collaborative professional and lifelong learner, she is committed to the library as a tool for creating connection, enriching lives, and sustaining social justice. In this role, Wendy hopes to spread her enthusiasm for information literacy by being a dynamic presence in both the library and classroom settings.
John Barr
Simulation and Learning Technology Specialist
John earned his associate's degree in computer science from York County Community College. He is a passionate web developer, AI enthusiast, and storyteller. His experience working as a math tutor and in the IT department at YCCC has shaped his ability to approach challenges with patience and perseverance. He thrives on finding creative solutions and is always excited to tackle unfamiliar problems, especially if they involve technology. If he can do it on a computer, then he will enjoy doing it.
Workshop Materials
Adjunct Refresher PowerPoint from 8/17/2026
Download the PowerPoint here.
New Adjunct Orientation PowerPoint from 8/18/2026
Download the PowerPoint here.
Popular Links
YCCC Syllabus Template V6 (ADA Compliant Version)
Use this template to create your official course syllabus. Make sure to send a completed copy to YCCCsyllabi@mainecc.edu by the first day of the term.
Panorama Accessibility Tutorial Video
This is a brief overview of Yuja Panorama, the accessibility tool we use in Brightspace. There is also some information on remediating PDFs using Adobe Acrobat Pro.
Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation (Digital Form)
This link opens in a new window
Review the York County Community College Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation document to get a sense of what you will be evaluated on during a course observation
more...
less...
Note: You will need to save a copy of the Digital Form and use it through your desktop app, not the web-based version of Word, to complete it
Early Alert Form
Fill out this form to identify students who are struggling academically.
Care Team Link
Fill out this form to identify students who are struggling with mental health, food insecurity, transportation, or other barriers.
Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation (Print-Friendly Form)
This link opens in a new window
Review the York County Community College Faculty Member Online Teaching Evaluation document to get a sense of what you will be evaluated on during a course observation
Brightspace Training for Instructors
This link opens in a new window
Take this open training course to learn the basics of Brightspace
MCCS Teaching and Learning Standards (2025)
Review the guiding standards for designing and instructing courses within the Maine Community College System.
ADA Faculty/Instructor Checklist
This checklist can support instructors as they ensure their course materials are ADA compliant.
Updates, Outages, and Remedies
Technology is constantly changing, and sometimes that means you may experience some technical difficulties in your courses. Here you'll find a list of current known updates and outages alongside action needed or suggested remedies.
UPDATES:
LTI 1.1 links will no longer be available in Brightspace, impacting the use of external learning tools such as McGraw Hill Connect, Cengage Mindtap, Labster, and similar third-party tools as of Friday, May 10th, 2024. Instructors should instead be using LTI 1.3 links, which can be inserted using "Existing Activities" in a Brightspace module. Resources and tutorials will be available soon.
Summer instructors who are seeing "Broken Topic" items in their courses can reach out to
yccc
CTESupport@mainecc.edu
for assistance.
Brightspace Updates and Releases
The following videos provide quick overviews of Brightspace updates. Note that some updates are not relevant to YC and videos are snipped as possible to skip the non-YC material.
Creator+ Update
Watch this short video from the cinematic artists at Southern Maine Community College to get a brief overview of Creator+, a new set of features available in Brightspace to increase navigability and engagement.
Interesting Reads
Workforce Skills Study
This link opens in a new window
Presents major findings, including the existence of a workforce skills communication gap that prevents students from effectively communicating in-demand workforce skills they have developed to potential employers, and strategies to address them in learning environments
How AI, Gamification, and Virtual Reality enhance eLearning
This link opens in a new window
eLearning is a booming sector worldwide, and it's only going to grow. AI, gamification, and Virtual Reality are all making eLearning more interactive, personalized, and fun. These trends improve eLearning outcomes, and they're the future of education
4 Power Skills We Can’t Take for Granted Anymore- and How to Develop Them
This link opens in a new window
Many business leaders will avoid hiring recent graduates due to a lack of soft skills—which is all the more reason to invest in training them
ChatGPT and Generative AI
This link opens in a new window
This resource page from the University of South Carolina was developed to help faculty learn about ChatGPT and its implications for teaching and learning. The information and recommendations on this page will be updated as more is learned about this technology
<<
Previous:
Home
Next:
Instructional Strategies >>
Last Updated:
Oct 2, 2026 1:56 PM
URL:
https://virtual.yccc.edu/academicAffairs
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Subjects:
Educational theory
Finding articles
The Student Success Commons
Tutoring
Tags:
assessment
Brightspace
course design
cultural_events
faculty
instruction
staff
teaching
yccc